Document how to monitor deadlocks in DBM (#26262)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/guide/sql_deadlock.md

---
title: Configuring Deadlock monitoring on SQL Server
further_reading:
- link: "/database_monitoring/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Database Monitoring"
- link: "/database_monitoring/setup_sql_server/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Setting Up SQL Server"
- link: "/database_monitoring/troubleshooting/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Troubleshooting Database Monitoring"
---

> The Deadlock view allows you to explore deadlocks events in your SQL Server database.
> This guide assumes you have configured Database Monitoring for your [SQL Server][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Deadlock view enables you to explore deadlock events in your SQL Server database. A deadlock occurs when two or more processes are unable to proceed because each is waiting for the other to release resources. This guide assumes that Database Monitoring has been configured for your [SQL Server][1].
```

Reviewer: Added a description of what a "deadlock" is to the introduction. Let me know if the description is accurate, or if it needs to be revised.

## Before you begin

Supported databases
: SQL Server

Supported deployments
: All deployment types except Azure DB (Azure Managed Instance is supported)

Supported Agent versions
: 7.59.0+

## Setup
1. In the SQL Server Database Instance, create a datadog extended events (XE) session. This can be run on any database within the instance.
```sql
CREATE EVENT SESSION datadog
ON SERVER
ADD EVENT sqlserver.xml_deadlock_report
ADD TARGET package0.ring_buffer
WITH (
    MAX_MEMORY = 1024 KB,
    EVENT_RETENTION_MODE = ALLOW_SINGLE_EVENT_LOSS,
    MAX_DISPATCH_LATENCY = 30 SECONDS,
    STARTUP_STATE = ON
);
GO

ALTER EVENT SESSION datadog ON SERVER STATE = START;
GO
```

2. In the Datadog Agent, enable deadlocks in `sqlserver.d/conf.yaml`.
```yaml
deadlocks_collection:
    enabled: true
```

## Exploring deadlock events

To access the deadlock view, navigate to the **APM** > **Database Monitoring** > **Databases** tab > select your SQL Server host > **Deadlocks** tab.

> ## Notes
> 
> - Only the first 1024 characters of the SQL statement are captured.
> - If the datadog XE session is not created in the database, the agent will still attempt to collect deadlock events from a default SQL Server XE view which writes to the buffer pool, but there is a higher chance to miss events due to a size limitation on the XML that is queried from this view. More background on [this Microsoft thread][2].
> - Deadlocks in general are a rare occurrence, so you likely will not see data in the platform immediately upon enabling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I suggest we delete this section and instead move the items in the bulleted list further up in the article. It will make more sense to the reader if the items are listed next to the relevant step/section.

The only item I'm not sure about is "Only the first 1024 characters of the SQL statement are captured." Should this go in the **Exploring deadlock events** section or somewhere else?

> To access the deadlock view, navigate to the **APM** > **Database Monitoring** > **Databases** tab > select your SQL Server host > **Deadlocks** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access the deadlock view, navigate to the **APM** > **Database Monitoring** > **Databases** tab, select a SQL Server host, and then click the **Deadlocks** tab.
```

> The deadlock tab displays details about the victim and survivor processes and includes a link to the deadlock diagram.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deadlock tab displays details about the victim and survivor processes, and includes a link to the deadlock diagram.
```
